So where are you successful let's implement the side menu together in the app HMO files so any template
of our root component here I want to implement is side menu.
So I'm going to add D and menu element here which is the wrapper for our menu.
And you may remember that IDE menu has this content property we need to bind where we basically Tallaght.
Well where should you render your reconned and where should you place yourself over.
So where should you be an overlay to.
And this will be the identifier.
So I'm going to give it as a reference of NAV and then I'm going to add those are passed as reference
as an argument to this property bind and here to tell it well this menu belongs to this navigation Steg.
And when we open the menu it should be shown above this navigation stack inside of the menu.
I want to have a header with a toolbar inside of it again no nav bar because we don't need any navigation
features in there only want to toolbar look and then the title.
Now hearable simply say menu again.
The more interesting part obviously is the iron content of this menu which allows us to implement all
the features we need are all those buttons we need.
For this I will use the I list to structure the content.
Again you are free to use any other layout you want or you could use the grid or whatever you need whatever
you think it looks nice and InDesign list.
I'm going to add a couple of buttons.
Let's start with one button.
This button receives the item directive to look like a list item in this last year.
It will also hold I can this is wollop.
Well at the Iken left directive to indicate that the eye can should be placed on the left.
And of course I will need a click listener to do something when to click this button.
Now I want to execute the on load method and it will repeat or I've already used this method for all
my buttons here.
Therefore what I want to pass here is the page I actually want to load and this first button here should
actually lead to the recipe book or to our app.
So the page I want to load here is my tap's page.
So this is a property I will need to create or I can already change route page year to tap's page like
this and with that change of course and each are adjusted down here Saddam is simply restructuring this
because there is no single root page anymore.
It depends on our authentication state or at least it will depend on this soon.
So I want to load the tabs page this property which holds a reference to our taps page if I click the
first button.
Now as I mentioned this will not be the only button we're going to have moral options.
The next option I want to present is DS sign in page.
Now again this will only be shown in the same menu Temperley.
Later we're going to add some logic to show either the recipe book or log out button if we're authenticated
or did you sign in and sign out buttons.
If we're not fan dictated for now I'm going to show all those options at all the time.
So here for a sign in it I of course also need to replace this I'm no longer pointing to the taps page
and said Here I want to load sign in page and this property doesn't exist so let me quickly create a
two year sign in page ship point to the sign in page here.
Make sure to also import is reference to the page.
And then I can duplicate this one more time.
But before I do this I actually want to change the content of the button because I said I want to have
all I can in there right.
So let's add I an icon element and I already picked some fitting icons but it can always these used
as I can repository to find your favorite.
I can for the first pop in here for your recipe book I want to use that book item I can here and forward
sign in button here.
I actually also found a fitting I can so let's add I and I can here with a name of log in.
Very creative right.
But there's is the log in I can looks very nice there for as it is the content of this button.
With that I'm going to repeat this button two more times to copy it two more times.
The first part of the two new buttons here will point to the sign up page.
This property all needs to be created here in the app component therefore to make it work.
Sign up page also at this import and of course I want to say sign up as a caption here and change log
into.
And here I found the person I can look really nice of course again.
Choose your favorite.
I can.
Well and then lastly the last year should allow us to lock the user out here.
De-funding icons do you log out.
I can and I actually don't want to execute on load here.
I want to execute on lock out.
Now I haven't implemented on load and I haven't implemented on lock out.
We'll do this in a second.
But before doing this let's also remember that we need to hook up the two new pages we created sign
in and sign up.
So let's go to the app module and at the sign in page here Aunty's sign up page at both 2-D declarations
aere and at their imports at the top.
And then of course you also need to add them to your entry components as they are loaded through ionic
too.
Now with this does set up this menu is configured though it's not finished.
We have no way of showing it.
And again on load and on Lagat are not implemented.
So let me implement on load first on log out will follow later because we can't do that as of now we
haven't implemented any authentication logic in the app component itself and the typescript code here
I'm going to add the on load method.
And I know that the argument will be a property which holds the page I want to load or will be the page
itself.
So we're passing all those properties as arguments here and that of course will be the individual references
this property stores.
Right.
So the taps page silane page or sign up page reference.
This is what we will receive here does page reference and therefore here what I want to do is a one
to navigate.
Now we already learned in the first ep that we can't use the nav controller in the component because
the navigation has not been initialized at the point of time this component is created.
Right.
So injecting it in a constructor won't work.
Instead we have to get a reference by using at view child and make sure to import view child from an
angle or core.
We have to get a reference to dis INFP component which will be or which is our template representation
of the NAAFA controller.
And therefore when we get viewed Schult this will have been initialized because this happens later and
not at the point of time we create this component.
So a year I'm passing now as a string to reference this Neph local reference here on this element.
And with that we're getting access to this element.
I'm going to store it in property named Neph and it will be of type Neph controller.
So make sure to assign this type and imported from ionic angular up here with this reference.
Stuart I can now go to onload and use NAV to set the route page year and XEDIT to the page to the reference
of the page we're getting here as an argument.
Also I want to close the menu.
If we load and you page 4 days I will need to inject something which I can inject at this point of time.
The menu controller of type menu controller which you should import from ironic Engler to end with is
imported.
I can not only change the route page but also close the menu which probably is open at this point of
time.
So with that we implemented on load I will already add on log out but I will leave it empty for now
again because we haven't added any authentication logic to this page.
Therefore it would be kind of hard to lock the user out right.
He's not even locked in.
So with this out of the way the missing piece is the button to open the menu.
Now this leads us to the question where do we want the user to be able to open the menu.
Well I'd say the user should be able to open the menu from all major components or pages.
So from the recipes page here where we output all the recipes and already have this plus I can to create
a new recipe.
And in the shopping list page on this page here these are the two pages we're whipping nice to allow
the user to switch to page.
Oh and also on sign in and sign up of course because otherwise we have no chance of leaving those pages.
So those four pages are pages where we should be able to open the menu for a button in the nav bar.
Now we've already learned how to implement such a button in the first app we built.
So this is again a nice challenge for you to go ahead and add such a menu toggle button in the four
pages mentioned a few seconds ago.
I'll give you a chance to pause the video and we'll do this together thereafter.
So were you successful let's add these toggle button together.
I'll start in the recipes page here.
We already have all Ion's buttons lock but this one places the button at the end.
I want to add a new buttons block which places the button at the start of the nav bar so on the left
and just as trivia if you wondered why it's called Start and End and not left and right start and end
is not necessarily the same on all platforms.
Start in and we'll adopt to the platform it runs on.
So that for example if start means on the left for iOS.
But on the right for Android it places it correctly.
So if you play start it will place it always on what this platform considers as the start.
This is why we have this naming just as a side note.
So with this let's add a button to the end buttons block we just created.
Let's add the button directive of course and then I can only because it will only be.
I can.
And with this or on this button I want to have an icon with the name of menu.
There's this nice menu icon are also at the menu toggle directive to have an easy way of opening and
closing this menu and that's all we need.
Now with that I'm going to copy this block and also add it to my shopping list here to have a menu talk
the button there.
And on the seinen page you're going to remove this comment I'm going to add this to and replace this
as with a capital as we're going to work more on these pages later.
Also on the sign up page remove that add a capital S year and then add this button block going to save
it.
D I only serve Prozess is already running.
Therefore if I now go to this page and let it reload we see the menu here on the top left and both the
recipes and the shopping list page.
If we open it we see our four choices and we can go to the sign in page to design a outpolls page can
click log out.
Nothing happens there of course we haven't eliminated any logic.
And we can go back to the recipe book which of course loads to shopping list since again recipe book
will load our Tapps component and their first step is the shopping list.
So this is working as intended with that we added are a side menu.
We are now able to work on the look of sign up and signing component before we don't actually add d
of indication or logic